doc: matter: Add documentation for last fabric removal (#12558)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/matter/end_product/last_fabric_removal_delegate.rst

.. _ug_matter_last_fabric_removal_delegate:

Matter fabric removal
#####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Reaction to the last Matter fabric removal
******************************************

> When a Matter device joins the Matter network it also joins the Matter Fabric created by an ecosystem.

Reviewer: There isn't something called Matter network. Matter network is actually a fabric, so maybe we should try to change it to:
```suggestion
When a Matter device is commissioned by the Matter controller it joins the Matter Fabric created by the controller.
```

> To ensure interoperability of multiple applications and ecosystems the device can join multiple Matter fabrics created by multiple ecosystems using the multi-fabric feature.

Author: Oh, I thought that there should be a brief intro inside each subheading :) Okay, so let's move it then.

> To ensure interoperability of multiple applications and ecosystems the device can join multiple Matter fabrics created by multiple ecosystems using the multi-fabric feature.

Reviewer 2: Before the first for an intro to the page, and then one for each subheading to introduce that section.

When the device is going to leave the last Matter fabric the network credentials and saved data are not usable anymore.
You can define a reaction on the last fabric removal and decide whether the device should remove non-volatile data, perform a factory reset, perform a reboot, or implement custom scenarios.

Pre-defined last fabric removal behaviors
=========================================

> There are 4 pre-defined reactions to the last fabric removal, available within the Matter Samples.

Reviewer: Could we add a link to matter samples page here?

All behaviors are implemented as a fabric table module delegation and the chosen reaction is run as a callback on each fabric removal.

For more information see the :file:`fabric_table_delegate.h` file which is located in the Matter samples common directory.

You can choose one of the following reactions to the last fabric removal and instruct the device to:

   * Do not react to the last fabric removal and leave the current state of the device.

>    * Remove the network credentials, and leave application-specific non-volatile data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Remove the network credentials, and keep application-specific non-volatile data.
```

>    * Remove the network credentials, leave application-specific non-volatile data, and then perform the reboot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Remove the network credentials, keep application-specific non-volatile data, and then reboot.
```

>    * Remove all stored non-volatile data (network credentials and application-specific) and perform the reboot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Remove all stored non-volatile data (both network credentials and application-specific data) and reboot.
```

>    * Remove the network credentials, leave application-specific non-volatile data, and start advertising Bluetooth LE Matter service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Remove the network credentials, keep application-specific non-volatile data, and start advertising Bluetooth LE Matter service.
```

To read more about reactions to the last fabric and learn how to set the related kconfigs see :ref:`ug_matter_device_advanced_kconfigs`.

Custom last fabric removal delegate
===================================

> In some cases, the pre-defined reactions to the last fabric removal can be not enough to cover all required activities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some cases, the predefined reactions to the last fabric removal are not enough.
```

> For example, only one pre-defined scenario assumes removing application-specific non-volatile data but requires also rebooting the device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, only one of the pre-defined scenarios includes removing application-specific non-volatile data, but it also requires rebooting the device.
```

> If the pre-defined reactions do not meet your expectations, you can define a custom reaction to the last fabric removal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the predefined reactions do not meet your requirements, you can define a custom reaction to the last fabric removal.
```

To implement a custom reaction you need to define a new delegation of the Fabric Table module.
The Fabric Table module is defined in the Matter stack and is responsible for managing Matter fabrics to which the device belongs.
The module stores a list of the delegations and each registered one will be called when the device leaves a Matter fabric.
You can define multiple delegations, so first of all, you need to disable the pre-defined one.

Disabling the pre-defined reaction to the last fabric removal
-------------------------------------------------------------

> To disable the pre-defined reaction to the last fabric removal set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_LAST_FABRIC_REMOVED_NONE` to ``y``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To disable the predefined reaction to the last fabric removal, set the  :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_LAST_FABRIC_REMOVED_NONE` Kconfig option to ``y``.
```

Implementing the custom Fabric Table delegation
-----------------------------------------------

> To implement the custom Fabric Table delegation you need to complete the following points:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To implement the custom Fabric Table delegation, complete the following points:
```

>    * Include :file:`app/util/attribute-storage.h` from the Matter stack core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Include the :file:`app/util/attribute-storage.h` file from the Matter stack core.
```
Should these be numbered steps instead of a bullet point list?

Author: I thought about it, but the user can do them in a random way, but they must complete all the points. So it is not necessary to impose numeration. Unless the enumerated list is more readable as an instruction step-by-step here. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: If they can be implemented in any order, then they can be bullets.

      .. code-block:: c

         #include <app/util/attribute-storage.h>

>    * Implement a class that inherits by ``chip::FabricTable::Delegate`` and contains an overridden ``OnFabricRemoved`` method from the base class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Implement a class that inherits ``chip::FabricTable::Delegate`` and contains an overridden ``OnFabricRemoved`` method from the base class.
```

      .. code-block:: c

         class AppFabricTableDelegate : public chip::FabricTable::Delegate {

            private:

               void OnFabricRemoved(const chip::FabricTable &fabricTable, chip::FabricIndex fabricIndex) {}

         }

   * Implement a reaction on the last fabric removal within the body of the ``OnFabricRemoved`` method.

>    * Call the ``chip::Server::GetInstance().GetFabricTable().AddFabricDelegate`` method of the Fabric Table module in the ``AppTask.Init`` method and provide the newly created class of delegation as an argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Call the ``chip::Server::GetInstance().GetFabricTable().AddFabricDelegate`` method of the Fabric Table module in the ``AppTask.Init`` method, and provide the newly created class of delegation as an argument.
```

>       The new delegation will be added to the delegation table and it allows to call the ``OnFabricRemoved`` overridden method when the last fabric is going to be removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The new delegation will be added to the delegation table and allows you to call the overridden ``OnFabricRemoved`` method when the last fabric is going to be removed.
```

.. note::

>    All actions implemented in the ``OnFabricRemoved`` cannot be called directly from the method body, and should be delegated to be done in Matter Zephyr's thread.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Not all actions implemented in the ``OnFabricRemoved`` can be called directly from the method body, and should be delegated to be done in Zephyr thread of Matter.
```

   This is because the device needs to confirm the removal of the fabric and send the acknowledgment to the Matter controller.

>    To delegate actions to the Matter Zephyr's thread you can use the ``chip::DeviceLayer::PlatformMgr().ScheduleWork`` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To delegate actions to the Zephyr thread of Matter, use the ``chip::DeviceLayer::PlatformMgr().ScheduleWork`` method.
```

> To see an example of the Fabric Table delegation implementation see :file:`fabric_table_delegate.h` file which is located in the Matter samples common directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see an example implementation of the Fabric Table delegation, see the :file:`fabric_table_delegate.h` file which is located in the Matter samples common directory.
```

.. _ug_matter_last_fabric_removal_delegate:

Matter fabric removal
#####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. matter_last_fabric_removal_description_start

When a Matter device is commissioned by the Matter controller, it then belongs to a specific Matter fabric.
To ensure the interoperability of multiple applications and ecosystems, the device can join the Matter fabrics created by multiple ecosystems using the multi-fabric feature.
As a result, the device can belong to multiple fabrics and can be managed by multiple Matter controllers.

> To remove the device from a fabric, a Matter controller sends the leave request to it and then removes all information collected from the device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

To remove the device from a fabric, a Matter controller sends the leave request to it and then removes all information collected from the device.
```
Adding a paragraph break since joining and leaving a fabric is contextually different enough.

Predefined last fabric removal behaviors
========================================

There are four predefined reactions to the last fabric removal available in the :ref:`matter_samples`.
All behaviors are implemented as a delegation for the Fabric Table module, and the chosen reaction is run as a callback on each fabric removal.

For more information, see the :file:`fabric_table_delegate.h` header file which is located in the Matter samples common directory.

You can choose one of the following reactions to the last fabric removal and instruct the device to:

   * Not react to the last fabric removal and keep the current state of the device.
   * Remove the network credentials, and keep application-specific non-volatile data.
   * Remove the network credentials, keep application-specific non-volatile data, and then reboot.
   * Remove all stored non-volatile data (both network credentials and application-specific data) and reboot.
   * Remove the network credentials, keep application-specific non-volatile data, and start advertising Bluetooth LE Matter service.

> To read more about reactions to the last fabric and learn how to set the related Kconfigs, see the :ref:`ug_matter_device_advanced_kconfigs` page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To read more about the reactions to the last fabric and learn how to set the related Kconfigs, see the :ref:`ug_matter_device_advanced_kconfigs` page.
```

Custom last fabric removal delegate
===================================

In some cases, the predefined reactions to the last fabric removal are not enough.
For example, only one of the predefined scenarios includes removing application-specific non-volatile data, but it also requires rebooting the device.
If the predefined reactions do not meet your requirements, you can define a custom reaction to the last fabric removal.

> To implement a custom reaction you need to define a new delegation of the Fabric Table module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To implement a custom reaction you need to define a new delegation for the Fabric Table module.
```
